docs/knowledge-base/ServerSideRendering.mdx, before:

import { Footer, TableOfContent } from '@sb/components';
import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';
import { SsrLimitations } from './SsrLimitations';

<Meta title="Server Side Rendering" />

<TableOfContent />

# Server Side Rendering

We're happy to announce that starting from **v1.17.0**, UI5 Web Components for React is supporting Server Side Rendering Frameworks like [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) 🎉.

<SsrLimitations />

<br />
<br />

## Next.js

### Create a new project

The best way to start using UI5 Web Components in Next.js is using one of our [templates](https://sap.github.io/ui5-webcomponents-react/?path=/docs/project-templates--docs).
We have templates available for both the pages and the app router.

### Add to existing project

In case you already have an existing Next.js project and want to add UI5 Web Components for React to it, you first need to follow our [general Getting Started Guide](https://sap.github.io/ui5-webcomponents-react/?path=/docs/getting-started--docs#add-ui5webcomponents-react-to-an-existing-app).

As UI5 Web Components for React is using `react-jss` internally, you need to apply some changes to your `_app` and `_document` file (in case you are using the pages router).
You can copy these changes either from the official [next.js-react-jss example](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/with-react-jss) or from our [pages router template](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/tree/main/examples/nextjs-pages).

In case you are already using the app router, you can copy the `react-jss` setup from the `app/CssRegistry.tsx` in our [app router template](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/tree/main/examples/nextjs-app). Make sure to add this component to your root layout!

## Other frameworks

Your favorite framework is missing here? Feel free to [edit this page](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/blob/main/docs/knowledge-base/ServerSideRendering.mdx) and submit a pull request to get it added!

<Footer />

Commit message:

docs(ssr): add server component pitfalls

docs/knowledge-base/ServerSideRendering.mdx, after:

import { Footer, TableOfContent } from '@sb/components';
import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';
import { SsrLimitations } from './SsrLimitations';

<Meta title="Server Side Rendering" />

<TableOfContent />

# Server Side Rendering

We're happy to announce that starting from **v1.17.0**, UI5 Web Components for React is supporting Server Side Rendering Frameworks like [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) 🎉.

<SsrLimitations />

<br />
<br />

## Next.js

### Create a new project

The best way to start using UI5 Web Components in Next.js is using one of our [templates](https://sap.github.io/ui5-webcomponents-react/?path=/docs/project-templates--docs).
We have templates available for both the pages and the app router.

### Add to existing project

In case you already have an existing Next.js project and want to add UI5 Web Components for React to it, you first need to follow our [general Getting Started Guide](https://sap.github.io/ui5-webcomponents-react/?path=/docs/getting-started--docs#add-ui5webcomponents-react-to-an-existing-app).

As UI5 Web Components for React is using `react-jss` internally, you need to apply some changes to your `_app` and `_document` file (in case you are using the pages router).
You can copy these changes either from the official [next.js-react-jss example](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/with-react-jss) or from our [pages router template](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/tree/main/examples/nextjs-pages).

In case you are already using the app router, you can copy the `react-jss` setup from the `app/CssRegistry.tsx` in our [app router template](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/tree/main/examples/nextjs-app). Make sure to add this component to your root layout! 

### Common Pitfalls

#### Icon and Feature Imports in Server Components

Some UI5 Web Component features rely on the registration of a component during runtime on the client. 
The most common of these are icon imports (e.g. `import '@ui5/webcomponents-icons/dist/add.js';`), feature imports (e.g. `import '@ui5/webcomponents/dist/features/FormSupport.js';` and asset imports (e.g. `import '@ui5/webcomponents-react/dist/Assets.js';`).

In order to fulfill their purpose in your application, you must ensure that these imports are only used in client components (the file or a parent component must contain the `'use client';` directive).
If they are imported into server components, these imports will do nothing and you'll notice that some features or icons are not available in your application.

## Other frameworks

Your favorite framework is missing here? Feel free to [edit this page](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/blob/main/docs/knowledge-base/ServerSideRendering.mdx) and submit a pull request to get it added!

<Footer />
