docs/Welcome.mdx, before:

import { Footer, TableOfContent } from '@sb/components';
import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';
import { Link, MessageStrip } from '@ui5/webcomponents-react';
import { VersionTable } from '@sb/components/VersionTable';

<Meta title="Getting Started" />

# UI5 Web Components for React

[![](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/actions?query=workflow:%22build%22)
[![](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/SAP/ui5-web)
[![](https://badgen.net/badge/slack/Join%20OpenUI5%20Slack%20workspace/blue?icon=slack)](https://ui5-slack-invite.cfapps.eu10.hana.ondemand.com/)
[![](https://badgen.net/badge/slack/webcomponents-react/orange?icon=slack)](https://openui5.slack.com/archives/CSQEJ2J04)
[![](https://badgen.net/badge/code%20style/prettier?color=pink)](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)
[![](https://badgen.net/badge/maintained%20with/lerna?color=purple)](https://lernajs.io/)
[![](https://badgen.net/github/stars/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react?icon=github&color=black)](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/stargazers)

[Open Github Project](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react)

UI5 Web Components for React is a Fiori compliant React library built on top of the UI5 Web Components.
With the help of UI5 Web Components for React, you can use UI5 Web Components as if they were native React components.
In addition to that, UI5 Web Components for React is providing complex components and layouts on top of the UI5 Web Components.

<TableOfContent />

## Requirements

- [React](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react) and [React-DOM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-dom) (**18.0.0 or higher**)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (**LTS version**)
- If you're using [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) we recommend version **4.7** or later.

## Getting Started

### Tutorial

You are new to UI5 Web Components for React and don't know where to start?<br />
Then take a look at our [Tutorial Mission](https://developers.sap.com/mission.react-spa.html) at “SAP Developers”!
There you get a first glimpse at how easy it is to create an Application with UI5 Web Components for React.<br />
In about an hour you will create a business dashboard from scratch and get familiar with some React basics in case you don't know them already.

### Examples & Templates

You can find a curated list of project templates and examples on our [Project Templates & Examples page](?path=/docs/project-templates-examples--docs).

### Add `@ui5/webcomponents-react` to an existing app

First of all, you need to add the `@ui5/webcomponents-react` dependency to your project. Please also keep in mind installing the required peer dependencies:

```sh
npm install @ui5/webcomponents @ui5/webcomponents-react @ui5/webcomponents-fiori
```

<VersionTable />

<MessageStrip
  hideCloseButton
  children={
    <>
      Please note that if a <code>@ui5/webcomponents</code> or <code>@ui5/webcomponents-fiori</code> version doesn't
      start with a patch-version of 0 (e.g. <code>~1.10.3</code>), only the specified version is supported and the
      previous patch-versions will most likely not work with <code>@ui5/webcomponents-react</code>.
    </>
  }
/>

In order to use `@ui5/webcomponents-react` you have to wrap your application's root component into the `ThemeProvider`.<br/>
You will find this component most likely in `src/index.js`:

```jsx
import { ThemeProvider } from '@ui5/webcomponents-react';
...
const root = createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));
root.render(
  <ThemeProvider>
    <App />
  </ThemeProvider>
);
```

Then you are ready to use `@ui5/webcomponents-react` and you can import the desired component(s) in your app:<br />
For example, to use the `Button` component you need to import it:

```jsx
import { Button } from '@ui5/webcomponents-react'; // loads ui5-button wrapped in a ui5-webcomponents-react component
```

Then, you can use the Button in your app:

```jsx
<Button onClick={() => alert('Hello World!')}>Hello world!</Button>
```

### Theming

UI5 Web Components and UI5 Web Components for React are both coming with the `sap_fiori_3` a.k.a. `Quartz` and `sap_horizon` Theme families built in.

<MessageStrip
  hideCloseButton
  children={
    <>
      UI5 Web Components for React uses the theme configuration of UI5 Web Components. Please also have a look at their{' '}
      <Link href="https://sap.github.io/ui5-webcomponents/playground/?path=/docs/docs-advanced-configuration--docs#theme">
        documentation
      </Link>
      .
    </>
  }
/>

In case you want to change your applications' theme, you have to import a couple of modules:

```js
import { setTheme } from '@ui5/webcomponents-base/dist/config/Theme';
import '@ui5/webcomponents-react/dist/Assets';
```

You can now change the Theme by calling `setTheme` with a string parameter of the new theme.<br />
Available Themes:

- `sap_horizon` (default)
- `sap_horizon_dark`
- `sap_horizon_hcb`
- `sap_horizon_hcw`

- `sap_fiori_3`
- `sap_fiori_3_dark`
- `sap_fiori_3_hcb`
- `sap_fiori_3_hcw`

### Configure Compact/Cozy setting

UI5 Web Components supports `Compact` and `Cozy` mode. It is set to `Cozy` by default. To enable `Compact`, provide the css class `ui5-content-density-compact` to any of your HTML elements and it apply compact size to all of its children.

```html
<body class="ui5-content-density-compact">
  ...
</body>
```

### TypeScript

UI5 Web Components for React supports [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), therefore we also provide type interfaces for event parameters, public methods of `ui5-webcomponents`, and more.

You can find all available interfaces of the main package [here](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/tree/main/packages/main/src/interfaces) and for charts [here](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/tree/main/packages/charts/src/interfaces).

#### Example

Small app with a popover opened by clicking a button including type declarations:

```tsx
import { useState, useRef } from 'react';
import type { ButtonPropTypes, PopoverDomRef, PopoverPropTypes } from '@ui5/webcomponents-react';
import { ThemeProvider, Button, Popover } from '@ui5/webcomponents-react';

export default function App() {
  const [open, setOpen] = useState<PopoverPropTypes['open']>(false);
  const popoverRef = useRef<PopoverDomRef>(null);

  const handleClick: ButtonPropTypes['onClick'] = (e) => {
    setOpen(true);
  };
  const handleAfterClose: PopoverPropTypes['onClose'] = (e) => {
    setOpen(false);
  };

  return (
    <ThemeProvider>
      <Button id="opener" onClick={handleClick}>
        Open Popover
      </Button>
      <Popover ref={popoverRef} opener="opener" open={open} onClose={handleAfterClose}>
        Content
      </Popover>
    </ThemeProvider>
  );
}
```

### Feature Registration

`@ui5/webcomponents` offers a variety of [feature (side-effect) imports](https://sap.github.io/ui5-webcomponents/playground/?path=/docs/docs-getting-started-using-features) that are available with `@ui5/webcomponents-react` as well.
To use them you have to make sure they are imported before any other imports!

### Support

Feel free to open issues or ask us directly in the [`#webcomponents-react`](https://openui5.slack.com/archives/CSQEJ2J04) channel in the
[OpenUI5 Community Slack](https://ui5-slack-invite.cfapps.eu10.hana.ondemand.com/).<br />
Please note that you have to join this slack workspace via [this link](https://ui5-slack-invite.cfapps.eu10.hana.ondemand.com/) if you are not part of it already.

<Footer />

Commit message:

docs: general docs adjustments (#6258)
Adjustments:

- mention ui5wc MigrationGuide
- order of breaking changes
- ThemingParameters in "Public Utils"
- 1.x support

docs/Welcome.mdx, after:

import { Footer, TableOfContent } from '@sb/components';
import { Meta } from '@storybook/blocks';
import { Link, MessageStrip } from '@ui5/webcomponents-react';
import { VersionTable } from '@sb/components/VersionTable';

<Meta title="Getting Started" />

# UI5 Web Components for React

[![](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/workflows/build/badge.svg)](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/actions?query=workflow:%22build%22)
[![](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/SAP/ui5-web)
[![](https://badgen.net/badge/slack/Join%20OpenUI5%20Slack%20workspace/blue?icon=slack)](https://ui5-slack-invite.cfapps.eu10.hana.ondemand.com/)
[![](https://badgen.net/badge/slack/webcomponents-react/orange?icon=slack)](https://openui5.slack.com/archives/CSQEJ2J04)
[![](https://badgen.net/badge/code%20style/prettier?color=pink)](https://github.com/prettier/prettier)
[![](https://badgen.net/badge/maintained%20with/lerna?color=purple)](https://lernajs.io/)
[![](https://badgen.net/github/stars/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react?icon=github&color=black)](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/stargazers)

[Open Github Project](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react)

UI5 Web Components for React is a Fiori compliant React library built on top of the UI5 Web Components.
With the help of UI5 Web Components for React, you can use UI5 Web Components as if they were native React components.
In addition to that, UI5 Web Components for React is providing complex components and layouts on top of the UI5 Web Components.

<TableOfContent />

## Requirements

- [React](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react) and [React-DOM](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-dom) (**18.0.0 or higher**)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (**LTS version**)
- If you're using [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) we recommend version **4.7** or later.

## Ongoing Support for Version 1.x

We will continue to support version 1.x until the end of the year, focusing on bug fixes to ensure continuity for our existing users.

## Getting Started

### Tutorial

You are new to UI5 Web Components for React and don't know where to start?<br />
Then take a look at our [Tutorial Mission](https://developers.sap.com/mission.react-spa.html) at “SAP Developers”!
There you get a first glimpse at how easy it is to create an Application with UI5 Web Components for React.<br />
In about an hour you will create a business dashboard from scratch and get familiar with some React basics in case you don't know them already.

### Examples & Templates

You can find a curated list of project templates and examples on our [Project Templates & Examples page](?path=/docs/project-templates-examples--docs).

### Add `@ui5/webcomponents-react` to an existing app

First of all, you need to add the `@ui5/webcomponents-react` dependency to your project. Please also keep in mind installing the required peer dependencies:

```sh
npm install @ui5/webcomponents @ui5/webcomponents-react @ui5/webcomponents-fiori
```

<VersionTable />

<MessageStrip
  hideCloseButton
  children={
    <>
      Please note that if a <code>@ui5/webcomponents</code> or <code>@ui5/webcomponents-fiori</code> version doesn't
      start with a patch-version of 0 (e.g. <code>~1.10.3</code>), only the specified version is supported and the
      previous patch-versions will most likely not work with <code>@ui5/webcomponents-react</code>.
    </>
  }
/>

In order to use `@ui5/webcomponents-react` you have to wrap your application's root component into the `ThemeProvider`.<br/>
You will find this component most likely in `src/index.js`:

```jsx
import { ThemeProvider } from '@ui5/webcomponents-react';
...
const root = createRoot(document.getElementById("root"));
root.render(
  <ThemeProvider>
    <App />
  </ThemeProvider>
);
```

Then you are ready to use `@ui5/webcomponents-react` and you can import the desired component(s) in your app:<br />
For example, to use the `Button` component you need to import it:

```jsx
import { Button } from '@ui5/webcomponents-react'; // loads ui5-button wrapped in a ui5-webcomponents-react component
```

Then, you can use the Button in your app:

```jsx
<Button onClick={() => alert('Hello World!')}>Hello world!</Button>
```

### Theming

UI5 Web Components and UI5 Web Components for React are both coming with the `sap_fiori_3` a.k.a. `Quartz` and `sap_horizon` Theme families built in.

<MessageStrip
  hideCloseButton
  children={
    <>
      UI5 Web Components for React uses the theme configuration of UI5 Web Components. Please also have a look at their{' '}
      <Link href="https://sap.github.io/ui5-webcomponents/playground/?path=/docs/docs-advanced-configuration--docs#theme">
        documentation
      </Link>
      .
    </>
  }
/>

In case you want to change your applications' theme, you have to import a couple of modules:

```js
import { setTheme } from '@ui5/webcomponents-base/dist/config/Theme';
import '@ui5/webcomponents-react/dist/Assets';
```

You can now change the Theme by calling `setTheme` with a string parameter of the new theme.<br />
Available Themes:

- `sap_horizon` (default)
- `sap_horizon_dark`
- `sap_horizon_hcb`
- `sap_horizon_hcw`

- `sap_fiori_3`
- `sap_fiori_3_dark`
- `sap_fiori_3_hcb`
- `sap_fiori_3_hcw`

### Configure Compact/Cozy setting

UI5 Web Components supports `Compact` and `Cozy` mode. It is set to `Cozy` by default. To enable `Compact`, provide the css class `ui5-content-density-compact` to any of your HTML elements and it apply compact size to all of its children.

```html
<body class="ui5-content-density-compact">
  ...
</body>
```

### TypeScript

UI5 Web Components for React supports [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), therefore we also provide type interfaces for event parameters, public methods of `ui5-webcomponents`, and more.

You can find all available interfaces of the main package [here](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/tree/main/packages/main/src/interfaces) and for charts [here](https://github.com/SAP/ui5-webcomponents-react/tree/main/packages/charts/src/interfaces).

#### Example

Small app with a popover opened by clicking a button including type declarations:

```tsx
import { useState, useRef } from 'react';
import type { ButtonPropTypes, PopoverDomRef, PopoverPropTypes } from '@ui5/webcomponents-react';
import { ThemeProvider, Button, Popover } from '@ui5/webcomponents-react';

export default function App() {
  const [open, setOpen] = useState<PopoverPropTypes['open']>(false);
  const popoverRef = useRef<PopoverDomRef>(null);

  const handleClick: ButtonPropTypes['onClick'] = (e) => {
    setOpen(true);
  };
  const handleAfterClose: PopoverPropTypes['onClose'] = (e) => {
    setOpen(false);
  };

  return (
    <ThemeProvider>
      <Button id="opener" onClick={handleClick}>
        Open Popover
      </Button>
      <Popover ref={popoverRef} opener="opener" open={open} onClose={handleAfterClose}>
        Content
      </Popover>
    </ThemeProvider>
  );
}
```

### Feature Registration

`@ui5/webcomponents` offers a variety of [feature (side-effect) imports](https://sap.github.io/ui5-webcomponents/playground/?path=/docs/docs-getting-started-using-features) that are available with `@ui5/webcomponents-react` as well.
To use them you have to make sure they are imported before any other imports!

### Support

Feel free to open issues or ask us directly in the [`#webcomponents-react`](https://openui5.slack.com/archives/CSQEJ2J04) channel in the
[OpenUI5 Community Slack](https://ui5-slack-invite.cfapps.eu10.hana.ondemand.com/).<br />
Please note that you have to join this slack workspace via [this link](https://ui5-slack-invite.cfapps.eu10.hana.ondemand.com/) if you are not part of it already.

<Footer />
